---
layout: post
title: Can you admit your faults
---

I feel strange writing a blog post like this. Never know if I should share my opinion on the web but I've been thinking recently. How easy is it to see your faults. 

Critism is a hard thing to deal with. I'm not talking about criticising your code here. I'm talking about critisim about the way you behave at work and how you handle things personally. Most peoples initial reaction to be defensive. even if they don't act it, they'll feel it. Normally going away thinking of some quip about how something isn't your fault or your not responsible. When somebody says

"That project didn't go well or you're not interacting well with your co-workers"

Its very easy to respond with 

"It was X who held us up or I'm fine. Its not me with the problem"

If the critism is well delivered you may be more open to it but it is difficult. 

So how should you deal with critisim. Well I think the trick is to see it from there point view. At the end of the day its their opinion that counts. You need to accept how they see the situation and deal with it. A lot of developers are narsasisic in nature so it makes it hard but its important. If they say yo At the end of they are probably right.

	



Wherever I go on the internet there seems to be a barrage of people complaining about their co-workers. It feels like everyone of them thinks they are the best at their company and everyone there is holding them back. Not everyone is like this but a lot of us developers seem to suffer from this narsasistic behaviour. The question I have is, how do these people deal with criticism. 

I think the default reaction for most when confronted with it is to instantly look to blame other people or external forces. 

"That project didn't go well or you're not interacting well with your co-workers"

Its very easy to respond with 

"It was X who held us up or I'm fine. Its not me with the problem"

Now even if this is true I don't think thats the response people should go with. I don't think it matters if you think its somebody else fault. If somebody is asking for you to make a change or improve on something I think the best thing is to do it, irrespective of wether you feel its you're fault or not. Because whats important is that they see it as you're fault, and blaming it on something else will never help the situation. 


After all, it probably was you're fault if somebody else has pointed it out. 

It's a lot about the delivery. Well delivered critique is like a stealth bomber that goes under your defences and lands on its target without you having had the chance to call the AA guns. 